README.md, before:

# regex
A regular expression matching engine based on finite automata written in C

## usage

### compiling
First, a regular expression must be compiled into the internal representation used for matching:
```C
regex* r = NULL;
int success = regex_compile(&r, "a|(ab)*");
```

### matching
Given a compiled regular expression `r`, the first occurrence in the null-terminated (or multiline, in that case only the first line is considered) input string `s` can be found with `regex_match_first()` *(more matching functions are soon to be implemented)*
```C
int position, length;
int success = regex_match_first(r, s, &position, &length);
```
`regex_match_first()` returns **1** on success, **0** else, so the result can be easily checked with `if (!success)`. If a match is found, the position of its first character and its length are returned via the reference parameters position and length.


## supported regular expression subset

| Expression      | Meaning                                                                                                                                                         |
| --------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **a**           | match letter a                                                                                                                                                  |
| **a***          | match zero or more occurrences of a                                                                                                                             |
| **a+**          | match at least one occurrence of a                                                                                                                              |
| **a?**          | match zero or one occurrences of a                                                                                                                              |
| **a{2,5}**      | match at least 2, but at most 5 occurrences of a                                                                                                                |
| **a\|b**        | match either a or b                                                                                                                                             |
| **[abc0123]**   | match any character given in the class                                                                                                                          |
| **[^abc03]**    | match any character NOT given in the class                                                                                                                      |
| **[a-zA-F3-7]** | match all characters in the given ranges from a to z, A to F and 3 to 7. Can be combined with non-range classes and works for both classes and inverted classes |
| **.**           | match any character                                                                                                                                             |
| **(...)**       | match the group inside the parentheses (all modifiers can be applied to a group)                                                                                |
| **^**           | match the beginning of a line                                                                                                                                   |
| **$**           | match the end of a line                                                                                                                                         |
| **\\}**         | match a literal **}** (applies for all control characters **()[]{}+-*?.**)                                                                                      |
| **\\\\**        | match a literal **\\**                                                                                                                                          |

### greedy and lazy matching
**\***, **+** and **?** match greedyly (take as many characters as possible) by default, but lazily (take the smallest possible amount of characters) if appended with an additional **?**. Given an input string

```html
<div>content</div>
```
* the expression ` <.*> ` will match the whole line `<div>content</div>`
* but ` <.*?> ` will only match `<div>`

## build and run the example
```bash
> make
> ./bin/example 'regular expression' 'string to match against'
```
Either gcc must be installed or you have to change the compiler in the makefile

Commit message:

enhanced the range modifier to allow usages as a{3}, a{,3} or a{3,} instead of only a{3,3}

README.md, after:

# regex
A regular expression matching engine based on finite automata written in C

## usage

### compiling
First, a regular expression must be compiled into the internal representation used for matching:
```C
regex* r = NULL;
int success = regex_compile(&r, "a|(ab)*");
```

### matching
Given a compiled regular expression `r`, the first occurrence in the null-terminated (or multiline, in that case only the first line is considered) input string `s` can be found with `regex_match_first()` *(more matching functions are soon to be implemented)*
```C
int position, length;
int success = regex_match_first(r, s, &position, &length);
```
`regex_match_first()` returns **1** on success, **0** else, so the result can be easily checked with `if (!success)`. If a match is found, the position of its first character and its length are returned via the reference parameters position and length.


## supported regular expression subset

| Expression      | Meaning                                                                                                                                                                         |
| --------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **a**           | match letter a                                                                                                                                                                  |
| **a***          | match zero or more occurrences of a                                                                                                                                             |
| **a+**          | match at least one occurrence of a                                                                                                                                              |
| **a?**          | match zero or one occurrences of a                                                                                                                                              |
| **a{2,5}**      | match at least 2, but at most 5 occurrences of a (**a{,3}**, **a{3,}** and **a{3}** are also allowed and will match 0-3, exactly 3 and exactly 3 occurrences of a respectively) |
| **a\|b**        | match either a or b                                                                                                                                                             |
| **[abc0123]**   | match any character given in the class                                                                                                                                          |
| **[^abc03]**    | match any character NOT given in the class                                                                                                                                      |
| **[a-zA-F3-7]** | match all characters in the given ranges from a to z, A to F and 3 to 7. Can be combined with non-range classes and works for both classes and inverted classes                 |
| **.**           | match any character                                                                                                                                                             |
| **(...)**       | match the group inside the parentheses (all modifiers can be applied to a group)                                                                                                |
| **^**           | match the beginning of a line                                                                                                                                                   |
| **$**           | match the end of a line                                                                                                                                                         |
| **\\}**         | match a literal **}** (applies for all control characters **()[]{}+-*?.**)                                                                                                      |
| **\\\\**        | match a literal **\\**                                                                                                                                                          |

### greedy and lazy matching
**\***, **+** and **?** match greedily (take as many characters as possible) by default, but lazily (take the smallest possible amount of characters) if appended with an additional **?**. Given an input string

```html
<div>content</div>
```
* the expression ` <.*> ` will match the whole line `<div>content</div>`
* but ` <.*?> ` will only match `<div>`

**{}** always matches lazily: `a{2,4}` with input `aaaa` will only match `aa`. But `a{2,4}b` with input `aaaab` will match the complete line `aaaab` because it is forced to do so by the last character. 

## build and run the example
```bash
> make
> ./bin/example 'regular expression' 'string to match against'
```
Either gcc must be installed or you have to change the compiler in the makefile
